# Berkeley Open Extended Reality Recording Dataset 2023 (BOXRR-23)

## Dataset Contents

This dataset contains 4,717,215 motion capture recordings generated by 105,852 real users of extended reality (XR) devices. We sourced these recordings from a number of broadly publicly-available sources, converted them all into a single format, combined them with additional metadata from further open-access APIs, removed identifiable user data, and finally packaged the recordings into a unified dataset for use by the research community.

The dataset totals 4.7 TB in compressed size, and expands to over 8.0 TB of raw data. For ease of access, we have split the data into 106 chunks, each containing up to 1,000 users, with an average size of 45 GB per chunk.

## Dataset Sources

Our data is currently sourced from three public repositories, two of which collect recordings from the VR rhythm game Beat Saber, with the third collecting recordings from the VR drawing application TiltBrush. All three sources exclusively contain voluntary user-submitted data, are broadly, publicly available via the internet, have clear privacy policies permitting redistribution, and are available under permissive licenses.

| Source     | Application | Users      | Recordings | Original Format | Size (Raw) |
| ---------- | ----------- | ---------- | ---------- | --------------- | ---------- |
| BeatLeader | Beat Saber  | 95,192     | 4,196,162  | .bsor           | 6.25 TB    |
| ScoreSaber | Beat Saber  | 55,331     | 1,352,811  | .dat            | 1.44 TB    |
| PolyGone   | Tilt Brush  | 27,693     | 55,178     | .tilt           | 1.87 TB    |

**Note:** There is a large overlap between ScoreSaber and BeatLeader users. Users of both platforms are treated as a single user in the dataset. Additionally, recordings that were submitted to both platforms have been deduplicated in the final dataset.

We hope to include data from other types of XR devices and applications in future versions, and have designed our data format and structure to be compatible with new types of sources in the future.

## XROR Format

The data in this dataset utilizes the Extended Reality Open Recording (XROR) format, a binary data format purpose-built for storing telemetry and event data streams from a wide variety of extended reality applications and devices.

Internally, XROR is based on the Binary JavaScript Object Notation (BSON) encoding format, with each .xror recording file containing a number of metadata attributes encoded as standard BSON attribute types. However, floaing point arrays, such as those used to store telemetry and event data streams, are compressed using `fpzip` and stored as raw binary data.

`fpzip` is a lossless floating point compression standard developed by Lawrence Livermore specifically for handling scientific data; it significantly outperforms general-purpose compression formats (e.g., lzma, deflate) for XR recordings, with a 50% compression ratio being typical.

We have provide an open-source XROR library in Python for reading and decompressing XROR files in a single step, as well as bidirectional conversion between XROR and a number of other standard formats: https://github.com/metaguard/xror

## XROR Structure

When opening an XROR file with a standard BSON reader, the following attributes may be present:

- **$id** (string, integer, uuid): A unique identifier for this recording.
- **info** (object): Metadata about this recording.
	- **name** (string): The name of this recording.
	- **timestamp** (date): Unix timestamp for the start of this recording.
	- **hardware** (object): Metadata about the hardware associated with this recording.
		- **devices** (array): The hardware devices associated with this recording.
	- **software** (object): Metadata about the software associated with this recording.
		- **api** (string): The API used by the application associated with this recording, such as OpenXR.
		- **runtime** (string): The runtime environment associated with this recording, such as SteamVR.
		- **app** (object): Metadata about the application associated with this recording.
			- **id** (string, integer, uuid): A unique identifier for the application associated with this recording.
			- **name** (string): The name of the application associated with this recording.
			- **version** (string): The version number of the application associated with this recording.
			- **extensions** (array): Metadata about extensions to the application associated with this recording.
				- **id** (string, integer, uuid): A unique identifier for the extension.
				- **name** (string): The name of the extension.
				- **version** (string): The version number of the extension.
		- **environment** (object): Metadata about the virtual environment associated with this recording.
			- **id** (string, integer, uuid): A unique identifier for the environment associated with this recording.
			- **name** (string): The name of the virtual environment associated with this recording.
		- **activity** (object): Metadata about the activity associated with this recording.
			- **id** (string, integer, uuid): A unique identifier for the activity associated with this recording.
			- **name** (string): The name of the activity associated with this recording.
	- **user** (object): Metadata about the user associated with this recording.
		- **id** (string, integer, uuid): A unique identifier for the user associated with this recording.
		- **name** (string): The name of the user associated with this recording.
- **frames** (binData): The sequence of telemetry data frames comprising this recording; consists of a fpzip-compressed 2D array of floats, with one entry per frame. Each entry starts with the time of the frame in seconds elapsed since the start of the recording, and then includes the telemetry data associated with the frame, with one number for each tracked axis specified in devices.
- **events** (array): A sequence of events contained in this recording.
	- **id** (string): A unique identifier for the type of event.
	- **name** (string): The name of the type of event.
	- **attr** (array): The names of the attributes associated with this type of event. Lists all floating-point attributes first, followed by all other attributes.
	- **floatData** (binData): The occurrences of the event type contained in this recording; consists of a fpzip-compressed 2D array of floats, with one entry per occurrence. Each entry starts with the time of the event in seconds elapsed since the start of the recording, and then includes the floating point attribute values associated with the occurrence.
	- **otherData** (array): The occurrences of the event type contained in this recording; consists of a 2D array of values, with one entry per occurrence. Each entry includes the non-float attribute values associated with the occurrence.

XROR files are sparse, meaning that most attributes are optional, and also extensible, meaning that attributes beyond those listed above may also be included.

## Ethics
Every source of data used to produce this dataset was already broadly, publicly available prior to our involvement, and was the result of voluntary submissions under the informed consent terms of clear privacy policies from the respective platforms. Our use of this data has been reviewed and approved by UC Berkeley’s Committee for Protection of Human Subjects (CPHS) as protocol #2023-03-16120.